The Joe Rogan.
Experience. How many members, when you combine all the cartels,
how many members are we talking about?
That's that means it's pretty hard to put a number on how I will say this more
than a million. I will say this, they defeated the Mexican army in Sina LOA.
Yeah. That was bananas. Yeah.
When they captured El Chapo son. Yeah.
And then the army gave it back. Yeah. They're like, yeah.
You going to have him back?
Well, sorry. Uh, th that whole situation, uh, and it was like,
I remember that was happening and I was getting asked questions about it and it
was wife. It was all of a sudden just popped off, you know,
um,
basically supposedly official story from the Mexican government is that they
send a special police unit to capture him. Right.
Which is completely false.
I think because you don't send 35 agents to capture one of
the, the heads of one of the biggest scene, lot law cartel cells. Right.
So it's pretty much a by chance, they spotted this party,
people around on there, they went there. All of a sudden chapel's son is there.
They just stumbled into him. There's.
A, I, I posted a video on, on my feed of the capture of the, uh,
of, uh, El Chapo son.
And you can see it and you can see the surprise and really how
the agents are kind of uncomfortable or are fearful of what they just stumbling
on. Um,
imagine us agents stumbling on one of the America's most wanted
individuals up here. They're gonna put them on the ground.
They're going to handcuff it. And the video,
you can see that the point that rifles Adam and he calmly takes out his gun and
hands it to somebody inside of the inside of the house he was in and walks out
and kind of tries to negotiate with the people outside the federal agents that
are trying to arrest them. And you can see that the agents are like, oh,
what did we stumble in on? Right.
So that happened. They grabbed them, they reported back to Mexico.
They captured him. They started to announce the capture and his brother,
um, uh,
his half-brother Archie Baldo basically called in all of the reinforcements from
all surrounding towns and regions and seeing the law.
And it was flooded with a bunch of armed cartel guys, all of us,
you know, it was, wasn't there a video.
Of the government, people in the cartel, people talking.
Yeah. There's, there's, it's on my feed. You can see it if you want. It's uh,
it's basically, uh, an army unit that was being sent to reinforce security in,
in Quilligan being surrounded by cartel members. Yeah. Is this a right here?
Yeah. Uh, that's it, uh,
obviously the guys running around with a vest and wearing skinny jeans or some
of these, you know, oil cartel members. Um.
And they just talk.
It through, I mean, uh, they're outnumbered. And also there was a,
there's talk about, uh, there's a,
there's a specific community out there and seeing the law where all the army
families members live,
and they were apparently being held hostage by cartel guys as a bar bargaining
chips. So all these guys that we're seeing here,
they're dressed in civilian clothes with the vest. Those are all cartel guys.
Those are real cartel guys, Jesus Christ. And that shaking hands with everybody.
Well, you know, Hey, what's up homie? I mean, uh,
there again, we go back into the whole, what,
what is the fight they have in them? Right.
Seeing cartel was basically surrounding some of their communities and Helen
holding their family members hostage. So that went out over the radio.
So as an army member going into fight the cartels and you know what
I'm out of this flight. Yeah. So they raised their hands.
So then they release the hostages. Everybody backs out. Yeah. I mean, there's,
they defeated the Mexican government basically. Um,
anything they went up against, you know, um,
it's surrounded the city usually you'll see classic, uh,
classic Mexican cartel, uh, uh, CAC activity.
They close off the streets going into the city by burning, uh,
semis and trailers and stuff like that.
So you would see all these burning semi-trailers in the region.
So if you want to move in, you can't, and if you want to use your helicopters,
the cartels have an entire graph capabilities. So,
uh, they broke out a bunch of people from the prison,
just taking advantage of the whole chaos. Uh, you, you, you could see you,
there's a few other videos with, uh, there's, uh, armored trucks with, uh,
50 cows. And Medusa's on the back of them just moving around the city.
So there's no way, there's no way you can,
this is the breakout state prison, you know,
took advantage of the whole chaos and just, you know, let's just, let's, uh,
let's break some of our friends out. Right. So just pure chaos.
Uh, eventually they let that, the government decided to let them go,
that's the official story. But according to the people there,
there was no government saying, let them go.
There was like the guys holding him and said, you know what? It's not worth it.
Yeah. That's one of the, uh, the technicals as they call them up here.
Yeah. Dump trucks, they armor plate the sides and put somebody out,
imagine P and a person living there. Well,
that's what I'm trying to picture, what life is like for the civilians.
And most of these videos are all done now by civilian.
So there's a certain normal, we'll see, in some of these cases,
especially in scene law, it's part of it. It's, it's part of the culture there.
And as far as sides go, you know, Hey, the army is coming to save us.
That's not usually what to, some people in some of these communities think,
you know, because the cartels are, those are the guys in charge.
So Sina LOA always been like that. Like how long has it been a little,
it has traditionally been a cradle for like the origins of some of the high,
some of the more successful cartel heads. Right. Isn't that.
Where Julio, Cesar Chavez.
Is from. Yeah. Yeah. He is. Yeah. And, um, you know, lot, lots of,
uh,
lots of anybody that's anybody in scene a lot has some sort of relationship to
the cartels because they're a part of culture there.
There's no way of getting around. It had a surreal experience.
Once when I went there, I did a class out there. Um, and the, uh,
it was running down this bumpy road and then all of a sudden, just flat,
beautiful road. Oh yeah. This is the cartel part of the road that they built.
It's like, okay.
Wow. So it's like, sort of like the mom in Vegas in the,
in like the fifties and sixties.
Exactly, exactly. But it's now, and they're way more hardcore,
way more hardcore. You know, some of their, uh, they have, uh, uh,
[inaudible] is called the narco cemetery they have,
and it's basically luxury condos. They look like, I mean, I went there,
I thought it was a church and it turned out to be a tomb. Wow. All right.
So the, the opulence and the money there is just overt, you know, and,
and how they move around.
They roll around in vehicles with guns and nobody does anything because they own
the city.
What can be, what are they planning on doing it?
Was anybody have any plans or is it just, they just get accepted?
Yes. Well, you know, you, you, you, you get a lot of rhetoric about, uh,
collaboration. Yeah. That's, that's Hardy and his LMI, all of those are graves.
Some of them have CCTV video inside air conditioning, you know,
alarms. Those are great. Those are grave sites. And the cartel guys, uh,
heads go there on the day of the dead avenues, live bands,
shoot their records into the air. Nobody does anything. Wow.
Jesus Christ. This is crazy.
Yeah. I mean, the opulence has made, I mean, just seeing it, you know,
it's like having several Escobar's in one place, you know, it's not,
you know, it's like a lot of, a lot of, uh, cartels, uh,
heads are from that region. And a lot of their kids grew up in that and,
you know, the opulence is amazing.
Like, is this.
Going to grow? I think it is. And it's, I mean, I don't think it is,
it is growing, you know, again, going back to my friend, John Norris,
and having seen his experiences up here, uh,
finding all these illegal drug rose in, in, in, in, in public lands,
it's growing, it's growing over here too. So, yeah.
So, um,
th the thing that a lot of people have to think about a lot of these cartel guys
had their kids up here, so they,
they made their money down there and they sent their wives up here.
And a lot of these kids that were born in the late eighties,
early nineties coming of age, up here with that cartel pair degree. So,
and they're us citizens as passport.
So he's gonna S you're going to see some sort of shift and, you know,
they're coming of age, it was get experience. You get, you know,
a handoff of rains from the older generation to the newer generation.
You're going to see definitely it's definitely grown.
It seems so crazy to watch because it seems like it's not discussed nearly
enough. And it, it seems like if it,
if it keeps getting stronger, like what we saw with El Chapo son being released,
like, what is, what's this topic from taking over Mexico entirely?
Well, I mean, you, you, you would have people arguing that already has in,
in different ways. So
I think another thing that people kind of have to kind of figure it out and
realize is that there's factions in Mexico, in the Mexican government.
So you will see a federal government that apparently is being paid off by a very
specific large cartel group.
And then you'll see state governments that are different political party
influenced, uh, paying off by other cartels, uh, groups.
So you'll see, you know,
military units moving on the town and the state police blocking their way to get
in there because they play for different teams. Right. Whoa. Um,
you know, there's a,
there's a lot of talk right now about Philippe Calderon's tenure and how his
head of secure ahead of public safety was on the payroll of the senior law
cartel, which actually came out, uh, during El Chapo trial.
So now you're talking about basically a federal police force that was on El
Chapo's side.
So he had free range to grow and do whatever he had to do in that region
with the support of the federal government in a way.
So technically, you know,
who's in control of some regions and realistically,
some regions of Mexico are completely in cartel control.